# Dreamscape | [🔗Live Website](https://dreamscape-five.vercel.app/)

Dreamscape is a social MERN (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js) web application designed to be your personal dream recorder and a platform for sharing and exploring dreams within a community. Leveraging the power of OpenAI's DALL-E and GPT models, Dreamscape provides users with a unique and immersive experience for capturing, visualizing, and interpreting their dreams.

## Features 💥

- **Dream Recording:** Capture and record your dreams for personal reflection.
- **Visualization with DALL-E:** Experience your dreams through vivid visual representations generated by OpenAI's DALL-E.
- **Interpretation with GPT:** Gain insights and interpretations of your dreams using OpenAI's GPT model.
- **Social Exploration:** Connect with others, explore and share dreams within the Dreamscape community.
- **User-friendly Interface:** An intuitive and easy-to-use interface for a seamless social experience.

## Tech Stack 🔧

- **Frontend:** React.js
  - Component Library: [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
  - Styling: Tailwind CSS
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express.js
- **Database:** MongoDB Atlas
- **Authentication:** JWT (JSON Web Token)
- **AI Models:** OpenAI's DALL-E and GPT
- **File Storage:** Cloudinary
- **State Management:** React Query
- **Deployment (Backend):** [Render](https://render.com)
- **Deployment (Frontend):** [Vercel](https://vercel.com)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js and npm installed
- MongoDB Atlas account for database storage
- OpenAI API key for DALL-E and GPT integration
- Cloudinary account for file storage

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/amyng56/dreamscape.git

2. Install dependencies for both server & client:

   ```bash
   cd dreamscape/server && npm install
   cd dreamscape/client && npm install

3. Set up environment variables:
   - server/.env
     ```bash
     MONGODB_URL=your_mongodb_connection_string
     OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
     CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your_cloudinary_cloud_name
     CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=your_cloudinary_api_key
     CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your_cloudinary_api_secret
     JWT_SECRET=your_custom_jwt_secret
    - client/.env
      ```bash
      SERVER_URL=http://localhost:8080

5. Run the application:

   ```bash
   cd dreamscape/server && npm start
   cd dreamscape/client && npm run dev

## Contact 📧
Amy Ng - amyng.zip@gmail.com

## Acknowledgements
- OpenAI for providing the DALL-E and GPT models.
- The MERN stack community for their invaluable contributions.
